[Letter will be modified slightly and broadcast to TFC community]

-------

Hello foot nerd family

I hope you are all taking excellent care of yourselves and keeping well.

I'm writing this letter because it seems we have a socioeconomic storm approaching, and in response, our work must adapt for times ahead.

As the world changes, so too must our path as a community of health leaders and as a company.

Unprecendented times have created a sense of urgency to shift our focus with the foot nerd project and we want to keep everyone updated with changes being 
made.

The next 12-24 months will test our collective resilience as humans and my hope is that it will nudge people to focus on what matters: health.

The good news: Challenging events to come will help us grow and create a more beautiful world for us all to enjoy.

To conserve our energy, the foot nerd project will focus our resources on a clear objective: 

Expand the foot nerd community and offer a training framework that empowers nerds to become health leaders within their local communities. 

Our 360 day offering was a powerful tool of personal transformation for those who a ready to make a major commitment to health but we're found the interest
to be lower than expected and must adapt to make better use of resources.

360 days is a long journey, and in todays chaotic world, many are finding it hard to stay the course and keep on track. 

Our renewed aspiration is to train as many foot nerds as possible within the next 12 months to scale our positive impact as a community of leaders.

In an effort to help people reconnect with health and with others after two long years apart, we plan to bring back events in a big way for 2023.

To offer more workshops and playshops, we need to expand the number of foot nerds who are ready and comitted to teaching. Based on that, we're focusing
a large portion of our training on preparing foot nerds to lead in person experiences in their local communities across the world.

Delivering value to our communities can only be done sustainably if we can earn income for the work being done. We feel that foot nerds have immense value
to offer the world and will be working to foster conversations within foot nerd training on the topic of generating income as a community health leader - 
something we call a "Healthnode"

Launching August 1, 2022, foot nerd training (FNT) is a 12 week commitment of 1 hour per day based on the following framework:

- Orientation (1 week)
- Experientially restore healthy feet (6 weeks)
- Note review/peer discussion (1 week) 
- Workshop training (3 weeks)
- Healthnode training (1 week)
- Debrief + POW submission (1 week)

During foot nerd training, individuals will:

1) Restore healthy feet, and by doing so, gain a robust understanding of the process of restoring foot health 
(a better understanding than I received during a 2 year masters of physical therapy)

2) Earn income teaching a workshop in their local community

3) Be on a path to sustainably earn an income by helping individuals seeking to restore excellent foot health


In times of uncertainty and chaos, focus is a superpower. Foot nerd training is a return to our roots. 

Doing what we do best: helping people restore a strong foundation for health and inspiring people to become health leaders in their local communities

All content from the 360 day experience will continue to be available to nerds and we are considering offering the longer journey again in future if we
sense that there is demand for such an offering.

2023 will be an exciting year. Below are a few things on our roadmap for next year:

- Opening our first community center pilot location in Australia. This will be a template we hope to apply to other major cities around the world and will
serve as health hubs stewarded by foot nerds

- Nerd meetups in USA and Europe

- In person 7 day intensive foot nerd training experience (likely one in USA and one in Europe)

These plans are all preliminary right now and there's still lots of work to be done. That said, in order to get somewhere, you need to know where you want 
to go and put together a plan to get there so we're getting to work and will keep everyone updated as things progress. 

It's been an honour to learn alongside you all and I'm excited to continue the foot nerd project with a renewed focus so we can grow our numbers and expand
our positive impact on health culture around the world, starting with feet.

Our updated mission at TFC is to help 250 million people restore healthy feet. Thank you for being an important part of that mission.

I'm grateful to know and learn from each of you and hope your experience as a foot nerd has helped you improve your health and grow as a person. 

Much Love

Nick
