Draft started 9.29.22

Last edited: 10.3.22

-- Proof of work education --

Subsections:
- Introduction                            
- Value                                  
- Memorization -> experience              [information vs. understanding]
- Passing tests -> being witnessed        [much scarier, can't hide]
- Transactional education -> community    [lifetime access, updating collective intelligence]
- Closing: pioneering a new path

Extra notes:
- Unlearning information, exploring through mindful experimentation driven by a curious and playful mindset
- Broadcast -> dialogue
- Unhealthy disease pros vs healthy health pros

--
INTRODUCTION

It seems like we're currently living through a major shift in how we think of education at every level from kindergarden to post graduate studies.

For this article, I will focus specifically on post graduate degrees in health and aim to propose a new framework for developing health authorities.

In 2015 I completed a two year masters degree in physical therapy and began treating musculoskeletal (msk) cases within a clinical setting. 

I applied what I learned in school with my patients but felt there was a bigger opportunity to help the people who came to me for help. 

I was trained to diagnose and treat symptoms of msk dysfunction. A disease-centric, narrowly defined scope and a symptom focused palliative approach. 

Despite training to be an "expert" in the physical body, I personally struggled with foot and back issues and wasn't able to resolve them with the 
knowledge I acquired over the course of my formal training as a physical therapist.

I embarked on a personal exploration to understand foot health deeply and to experiment with different approaches to restoring healthy feet.

On the other side of a 6 month deep dive into feet and lots of experimentation, I emerged with several key insights that led me to create TFC:

1) The process of restoring healthy feet is incredibly simple
2) My PT degree provided me with no useful information on how to resolve my issues
3) Diagnosis and symptom treatment are the antithesis of health
4) Understanding is gained through experience, not through information

The understanding I gained through my own experience in resolving foot issues taught me very valuable information.

I realized that my ability to help people restore healthy feet wasn't derived from my degree, but from my own experience in facing challenges first hand.

My credentials and authority as a physical therapist was proof of degree. This false authority was gained from passing tests and spending time and energy 
learning information that proved to be of very little use (perhaps even worse than useless at times).

My newfound understanding and ability to restore foot health was proof of work. It was gained from personal experience. It was a result of restoring my 
own foot health and learning what actually works in real life.

Foot Nerd Training is a new framework for learning. A shift away from proof of degree and towards proof of work.

A framework that develops world class foot health authorities in a provable way. Not because people passed a test or because they paid to be certified, 
but because they led by example and have the proof to show for it (their foot health)

This new framework is constantly evolving and improving as more people complete their 12 weeks and offer their feedback on the experience.

Foot Nerd Training marks a shift away from disease care (diagnosis of disease and treatment of symptoms) and towards healthcare (understanding and
addressing the root cause of dysfunction)

It is a shift away from memorization of information and toward deep understanding gained through experience and sharing of stories. 

A transition away from broadcast unidirectional teaching to bidirectional dialogue between individuals who are taking responsibility and investing energy
into their own process in order to restore their foot function and determine truth.

Thank you for reading this. Thank you for being part of this community and for helping to pioneer a proof of work education framework that will lead us
into a new era of human health.

--
VALUE

When I look back on the amount of money, time and energy that was put into my 2 years masters degree in physical therapy, I can't help but think that
it provided very little value in terms of providing me the ability to help patients with their health. That said, it wasn't a complete waste of time.

I learned detailed anatomy and physiology, met amazing people, learned from experienced clinicians on my placements and gained a prestigious certification 
that granted me immediate job opportunities that paid a competitive salary.

What I didn't learn was that the human body is an amazing self healing, self organizing structure that directly adapts to how we use it.

I didn't learn that sitting in chairs all day and wearing unnatural footwear are primary causes of dysfunction. 

I didn't learn anything about health or how the food we eat, the sleep we get, the sense of community we have or the state of our minds affects the
physical body. 

I learned everything about disease and how to help people manage their symptoms, but nothing about health and how to empower people to restore it.

I guess it all boils down to how one determines value - a subjective estimate of what something is worth.

Thinking about value invites us to ask ourselves a powerful question: what do we value? 

Do we value letters next to our name? 
Do we value being recognized as the holder of a degree?
Do we value employment certainty?
Do we value meaningful work?
Do we value being part of an aligned learning community seeking to grow together?
Do we value continued learning?
Do we value truth?
Do we value thinking for ourselves?
Do we value dialogue and productive disagreement?

If we're spending our time and energy on a degree in order to learn from the "knowers", what happens when the "knowers" are teaching ineffective, 
outdated information that no longer applies to the new world we find ourselves living within?

If learning is a perpetual process, what is the value of acquiring a degree that reflects only a snapshot of knowledge in time?

Though foot nerd training, we aim to offer value by supporting people through the process of restoring foot health. 

We do this by fostering clarity & community. Clarity is derived from a concrete commitment and teaching principles we know to be true. Community is the 
secret sauce of foot nerd training. Connecting people with aligned values and aspirations so they can witness, be witnessed by and learn together.

We aim to empower students with a framework they can apply perpetually in their quest for mastery within the domain of foot health.

Our bedrock is a shared and constantly evolving knowledge base that emerges from our collective experience.

We don't provide the answers, we simply offer a template for a process that allows individuals to discover their own answers and a forum through which we 
can all share and compare the answers we have discovered in our personal journeys.

We offer value by supporting people in their quest to become a world class foot health authority. Not because we said so. Because they did the work and
have proof to back it up. 

We witness each other as equals instead of teaching from a place of superiority. The nerd herd is a meritocracy where the best ideas rise to the top and
those with the most experience help those beginning their journey.

--
FROM MEMORIZATION TO EXPERIENCE

Proof of degree indicates a proficiency in memorizing and recalling information. Proof of work indicates experiential understanding.

Traditional education is primarily transmitted through informational media - lectures, textbooks, papers. This information is to be consumed, memorized 
and regurgitated on exams but without being applied, the information can't be put to the test and is often forgotten. 

In short, degree based education is information rich and experience poor. Furthermore, memorizing information does not equate to understanding. 

Understanding a topic means deeply comprehending the subject and being able to explain it to different people in different ways. 

At TFC we feel understanding is forged through experience. Through trial an error, dialogue, and sharing stories. 

Foot nerd training focuses on experiential learning. We share foundational principles that we know to be true and invite students to apply
that information in a variety of ways based on their personal aspirations and interests. 

Traditional education offers something like detailed plans for a home. It assumes there is only one way to build a home and that the "knower" teaching 
students has discovered the best way to build that home. 

Proof of work education offers tools needed to build a home. Things like principles of engineering and physical tools that assist in the process of
building structures (like a hammer, level, tape measure). Students are then invited to apply those tools to build different homes. 

Along the way, some students may discover novel ways to design or construct a home and by sharing those unique discoveries with the community, we all 
learn new and innovative ways to apply the tools we have been given. 

Foot Nerd Training isn't about memorizing anatomy, biomechanics, and exercises (information). It's about applying basic principles to restore your own 
foot health which yields insights, understanding and a practical ability to help others follow your lead. 

--
FROM PASSING TESTS TO BEING WITNESSED

Passing a test is fairly straight forward. Consume the materials, memorize facts, regurgitate those facts and achieve a passing grade.

My physical therapy exams tested my ability to regurgitate outdated information, not my ability to effectively help my patients resolve their problems.

Within Foot Nerd Training there are no tests or exams. No single individual is assigned the authority to "approve" that someone "knows" the stuff.

Instead, we create a template for students to share their proof of work and a forum for them to be witnessed by their peers.

We believe that by sharing our proof of work and being open to feedback, we are demonstrating unequivocal proof that we have invested the time and energy
required to gain an understanding of how to restore healthy feet.

Putting your work into the public is scary. You can't hide. You can't avoid the work.

Proof of work education is about transparency. It's about having your work be witnessed and reflected on by peers and by witnessing the work of others so
we may learn, be inspired and support each other on our quest to restore healthy feet.

--
FROM TRANSACTIONAL EDUCATION TO COMMUNITY MEMBERSHIP

When I completed my masters degree, my learing journey with the school was complete.

I paid tuition, they gave me their current information, put me through tests and gave me a piece of paper that said I knew the "stuff".

I couldn't go back in 5 years and re-take the program to update my knowledge.

I couldn't help improve the program by submitting my experience and what I was learning.

There was nothing in place to facilitate long term communication and continued learning with my classmates. It was transactional. 

Foot Nerd Training shifts away from transactional education and towards community membership. 

We offer lifetime access to all training materials as they continue to evolve and as a meritocracy we welcome feedback and ideas from communiuty members
so we can continue improving the experience for future nerds that take the journey. 

Within our communiuty we harness a hive mind mentality to consistently update our collective knowledge database.

We engage in discussion, productive disagreement and we are open minded to changing our perspective as new information presents itself.

As a community we are flexible and evolving all the time. We are resilient and we build strength in numbers through a global network of aligned, committed
individuals seeking to change health culture one sole at a time. 

--
CLOSING: PIONEERING A NEW PATH

I want to begin this closing paragraphs with two quotes:

"You never change things by fighting the existing reality. To change something, build a new model that makes the existing model obsolete"
- Buckminster Fuller

"Because the people who are crazy enough to think they can change the world are the ones who do"
- Steve Jobs

We are Foot Nerds. The crazy barefoot people who climb trees, play often and have taken on a sense of responsibility to solve the health problem starting 
with feet. 

We're building a new model for learning to replace the overpriced, ineffective legacy education system that is no longer delivering value. 

We are co-creating a proof of work education framework that empowers individuals to restore healthy feet and pass on that knowledge to others in service
to their fellow humans who seek to reclaim responsibility for their well being. 

To Nerds: it's an honour being on this journey with you all. I love you and appreciate the initiative you are taking to lead by example.

To all others: We are waiting to welcome you with open arms when you're ready to make a commitment to restoring healthy feet. 

Leading by example and having your proof of work witnessed by an aligned community is what creates a foundation for a life in service to fellow humans.

We start with feet but we don't stop there. Because a foot conversation is always a whole body conversation. 


Thanks for reading

Nick

