Welcome to Foot Nerd Training
Thank you for being here. 
Thank you for leading by example and having the courage to take responsibility for your health (starting with your feet).

Use this time to organize and prepare yourself for the 12 weeks of training ahead. 
Succes tip: Planahead and create time for this. Don't try to "fit it in". 

You have made a commitment to yourself to spend 1 focused hour everyday improving your foot health for the next 84 days.
Congratulations! 
--

What we cover in this document:

1) Checklist before beginning Feb 1
2) Your daily hour
3) Concepts
4) Schedule
5) What is a Foot Nerd?
6) Proof of work calls
7) Slack and GitHub
8) Dialogue covenant
9) Foot nerd discounts @ www.thefootcollective.store
10) Week 11: Lead your event (shoes optional walk or workshop)
11) Feedback


1 ------- CHECKLIST 

Before Feb 1, complete these tasks:

1) Prepare a proof of work (pow) log. A journal with at least 84 pages. This is where you will take notes everyday.
2) Familiarize yourself with GitHub, email Ruth if you have any issues navigating the content.
3) Login to Slack and introduce yourself in the #orientation channel- add a photo, say who you are, where you are, why you're doing this.
4) Schedule your daily hour. Block off the time. What time will you do it? Where will you do it? How will you remind yourself?


2 ------- YOUR DAILY HOUR

Here are the 4 essentials of the daily hour:

1) Your daily practice (12-30 minutes). A consistent daily ritual of restoring and training your lower body

2) Taking notes (5-10 minutes).  Write a note in your pow log about what you're learning/noticing.

3) Study a concept and practice explaining it (to yourself or to a partner/friend/family member/coworker)

4) On the last day of each week, review your notes. Pick the most important golden nugget (something you've learned or noticed). 
   Be prepared to share it with us our live call. 

--

Dedicating 60 focused minutes a day for 84 consecutive days seems like a simple task, but it becomes difficult if you don't prepare and plan ahead.

In a chaotic distraction-centric world, Foot Nerd focus is a superpower so protect your energy and train your concentration.

Focused attention is where deep work happens. It's where results are created. It's where insights are achieved. Go Foot Nerds!

1 focused hour can generate more results than 5 distracted hours. Be aware of your blind spots and how you, personally, get distracted.

Success requires courage, clarity and commitment.

For Courage: Take responsibility by beginning again and again - even when you get derailed by life. 

For Clarity: Plan for your success, protect yourself from distraction and remind yourself why you're doing this.

For Commitment: Do what you said you were going to do. Keep your word to yourself first and foremost. (Begin again)


In order to clarify your commitment to Foot Nerd Training, answer these questions:

1) How do I define a dedicated hour? 
2) When will I complete my daily hour? How will I remind myself to do it? How will I track whether I'm succeeding or not?
3) How will I hold myself accountable? Who else can help support me along this journey?

If you lose your way and get off the path of completing your daily hour, give yourself grace, 
seek support if you need it and begin again. Begin again.

This isn't a race, it's a process. Foot Nerds are here to support you and we are all doing this together.

A glimpse of your daily hour:

- Learning a concept and teaching it to someone
- Going for a walk barefoot or in natural footwear
- Training your balance
- Working to restore a resting squat position
- Planning your event
- Taking notes
- Having conversations about foot health with friends/family/coworkers

Resource:
- Attention training video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CvORZNY0e9U



3 ------- CONCEPTS

Foot Nerd Training focuses on 12 fundamental concepts. (2 per week for 6 weeks)

As a Foot Nerd, you are expected to study these concepts, understand them deeply, apply them in your life and be able to teach them to others

Week 1: Daily POW log + Map to foot freedom
Week 2: First principles + Inputs/outputs
Week 3: Natural foot function + Natural footwear
Week 4: Balance + Resting squat position
Week 5: Ground Living + Pain
Week 6: Hardware & Software + 6 Pillars

You will be given opportunities to improve your communication skill by teaching these concepts to your peers via live calls
on the 1st and 3rd Monday of each month. (Details covered in number 6 below)

4 ------- Schedule

Here is a schedule of important elements for each week:

Week 1: Orientation call (Feb 6), submit baseline screen videos 
Week 2: 
Week 3: POW call (Feb 20)
Week 4:
Week 5: POW call (March 6), submit re-screen videos
Week 6: 

Week 7: POW call (March 20)
Week 8: 
Week 9: POW call (April 3)
Week 10: Deliver your event
Week 11: POW call (April 17)
Week 12: submit final screen videos

May 1: Graduation call



5 ------- WHAT IS A FOOT NERD

A foot nerd is someone who:

- Explores health deeply, starting with their feet
- Spends time barefoot
- Leads by example
- Takes excellent care of themselves
- Makes income helping others restore excellent health starting with feet

We love to play, are open minded, enjoy good faith disagreements and invest energy everyday into our health

We find purpose in being health resources for our local communities (Healthnodes within the global TFC network)

We feel it's always better to learn than to be right

We view science as the adult word for play

We understand that science is not a perfect tool but it's the best one we have right now for determining truth



6 ------- PROOF OF WORK CALLS

Why do we do them?

What are they?

What is expected?

When do we do them?



7 ------- SLACK & GITHUB

Slack has served as our virtual town square in cyberspace where foot nerds from around the globe connect with one another

It's the plaform we use to get to know each other, connect, ask questions, and seek help.

There are dedicated channels for each week. 
Please keep in context by engaging in the correct channel based on where you are in your 12 weeks.

Use the feedback channel to let us know how we can make foot nerd training better for you and for future nerds.

Starting February 1, 2023 we will be transitioning TFC to a new digital home and creating a private space to replace 
Slack where foot nerds can connect.

--

Github is where we host all foot nerd training content.

Each week of training has it's own Github file which contains the content for that week.

Library: a categorized repository of resources curated and created by foot nerds.

Experiments: a searchbase of experiment templates categorized by screen for you to choose from.

Dialogue covenant: The document that governs how we have conversations and disagreements within the foot nerd community (covered further in point 6)



8 ------- DIALOGUE COVENANT

This is our shared agreement that governs how foot nerds interact with one another in dialogue. Our rules of engagement for discourse
                                   
Created, edited and upheld by foot nerds

It’s our intention to create and maintain a productive space for intellectual disagreement and generative conversations

We aspire to become a community of individuals who can respectfully challenge each others perspectives and where each indidivual is heard

Together we maintain a safe environment for discourse, underlined by love and understanding

We’re here to learn from each other and contribute our varied experiences and backgrounds to the collective knowledge base

In doing so, we create diversity. Diversity is important because a wide variety of perspectives breeds immunity from bias

We work towards a space where fear is eliminated and every nerd is safe to speak what he/she believes to be true without the danger of repercussions


What this means for you:

Each nerd agrees to help foster a safe environment for discourse and debate

We will use Slack and Zoom (as needed) as forums where we can have discussions on controversial topics

When topics come up and nerds want to have a debate/discussion, a temporary channel will be created on Slack and the discourse will be held there

If a Zoom call is appropriate, nerds can propose, announce and schedule discussions that are open for all foot nerds to participate in

When needed, a mediator will lead the conversation and the discussion covenant will be enforced objectively by every participant involved


All nerds agree that conversations will be conducted with respect, will be constructive and that each person involved is participating in good faith

Good faith can be defined as: 

Contributing to the discussion honestly and fairly and agreeing to follow the guidelines for creating an environment of safety and trust

Everyone who agrees to the covenant (aka agreement) is also an arbiter to ensure that it is respected and enforced

It protects everyone within the space. The covenant is an evolving document

You can view the current version by selecting the dialogue covenant file from the README summary



9 ------- FOOT NERD HARDWARE DISCOUNTS

As part of the nerd herd, you get 25% off any order at TFC Store (www.thefootcollective.store)

Please keep this code confidential and only use it for personal purchases

25% off any order:         nerdherd23

Higher discounts may be offered to nerds on bulk purchases of accessories or beams. Contact connect@tfchardgoods.com to inquire

Please contact other international stores directly (Australia, Spain, UK) to inquire about nerd discounts available



10 ------- WEEK 10: LEAD YOUR EVENT

An imporant part of foot nerd training is bringing people together and sharing your understanding

In week 10 (or close to then) you will organize an event for your local community and receive a value exchange for your work

Your event can be a shoes optional walk, a more formal workshop, or both (we highly encourage taking on the workshop challenge)

Although 9 weeks seems like a long time from now, the earlier you begin planning your session, the better preprared you will be

Knowing you will be sharing your newly acquired foot health wisdom with others creates deeper meaning in your learning journey over weeks 1-6

You aren't just taking daily notes for yourself, you're also taking them for others with whom you will share your experience with

5 details to begin thinking about and finalize over the next few weeks:

- When will you offer your event? (date/time)
- Where will you host it? (location)
- Who will you invite? (participants)
- What will you offer and how much will it cost to register? (length, price)
- How will you exchange value with participants? (payment method)

Spending time thinking about these details is how you begin evisioning your event

Schedule it. Start telling people about it. Think about where you will host it (outdoor space? yoga/gym facility? your home?)

All of our actions begin as ideas. The clearer the idea, the easier it is to plan and manifest it into reality

Detailed event training is covered in weeks 8,9 and 10 to prepare you with everything you need to plan, prepare and confidently deliver a great event



11 ------- FEEDBACK

Foot nerd training is a constantly evolving framework and our team is focused on constantly improving the 12 week experience

Every person who works through training helps make it better by offering constructive feedback

We created a #feedback channel on slack and will check it weekly. We need your help to make foot nerd training better for participants

If at any point you have an idea about how we can improve the experience, please share your thoughts on Slack

