Welcome to Foot Nerd training orientation. This is a prep period to get you ready and settled in for the 12 weeks of training ahead

FNT orientation covers:

1) The roadmap
2) What is a foot nerd?
3) Proof of work submission requirement
4) Slack and GitHub
5) Layer 2 conversations
6) Dialogue covenant
7) TFC monthly zoom calls
8) Foot nerd discounts at www.thefootcollective.store
9) Week 11: deliver your workshop
10) Feedback: to improve FNT and make this experience better, we need your feedback. Feedback channel on slack, feedback element in debrief

Checklist:
- Prepare POW daily log
- Login to Slack, say hi and introduce yourself in the orientation channel
- Login to Github and access week 1


1 ------- The roadmap

Welcome to Foot Nerd training. Here is the plan for the next 12 weeks:

- 6 weeks restoring excellent foot health
- 1 week reviewing notes and sharing/discussing with peers
- 3 weeks learning how to deliver a TFC workshop and earn income by offering a workshop to your community
- 1 week understanding what it means to be a health leader in your community (Healthnode)
- 1 week debriefing from your experience and preparing your POW submission to complete FNT

Thank you for your commitment. Thank you for leading by example

These 12 weeks will challenge you. They will push you beyond your comfort zone

You are not alone on this journey. Foot Nerds are here to support you, witness your journey and to inspire you

We wish you an enjoyable, playful, rewarding 12 week journey and are grateful to have you as part of our global family


2 ------- What is a foot nerd?

A foot nerd is someone who:

- Explores health deeply, starting with their feet
- Spends time barefoot
- Leads by example
- Takes excellent care of themselves
- Makes income helping others restore excellent health starting with feet

We love to play, are open minded, enjoy good faith disagreements and invest energy everyday into our health

We find purpose in being a health resource for our local community. A Healthnode within the global TFC network

We feel it's always better to learn than to be right

We understand that science is not a perfect tool but it's the best one we have right now for determining truth


3 ------- Proof of work (pow)

[daily application of the concept is covered further in week 1]

Becoming a foot nerd involves a rigorous 12 week initiation which includes a proof of work submission to officially complete your training

A peer will review your pow submission and you will then receive a customized Nerd Tag in the mail to commemorate your accomplishment

There is no grading/evaluation. Having a peer review your submission is about having someone witness your journey

3 page proof of work submission guideline:

- 1 page summary of weeks 1-6
- 1 page summary of weeks 7-12
- 1 page workshop plan/debrief

Details: 
- bullet points are enouraged
- summary of weeks 1-6 to include baseline screen data and re-screen data at the end of week 6
- you are writing this for yourself. It's a cheat sheet that distills the most potent lessons learned over 12 weeks of training
- your workshop plan/debrief serves as your own workshop manual to be evolved and improved over time
- workshop plan: why are you giving a workshop? (purpose), when will you offer it? where will you host it? who will be invited? how will they pay?
- workshop debrief: how did it go? what went well? what challenges did you face? what do you want to improve? when will you offer the next one?


4 ------- Slack & Github

Slack is our virtual town square in foot nerd land

It's the plaform we use connect with each other to share stories, seek help, inspire one another and cross pollinate our journeys

There are dedicated channels for each week. Keep in context by engaging in the correct channel based on where you are in your 12 weeks

For private conversations, connect with other nerds via direct messages

Use the feedback channel to let us know how we can make foot nerd training better for you and for future nerds 

--

Github is where we host all foot nerd training content

It's a robust & free version control platform that allows us to continually update and evolve our knowledge

Each week of training has it's own github file which contains the content for that week

Library: a categorized repository of resources curated and created by foot nerds

Experiments: a searchbase of experiment templates categorized by screen for you to choose from

Dialogue covenant: The document that governs how we have conversations and disagreements within the foot nerd community (covered further in point 6)


5 ------- Layer 2 conversations

Sharing stories and engaging in good faith disagreement is how we evolve our knowledge as a community

If you connect with another foot nerd and think other foot nerds can benefit from your discussion, record it and we will make it available in the library

Ideas for layer 2 conversations:
- Sharing a story (your health story, a story about someone you're working with)
- Share a challenge you faced and how you overcame it
- Have a good faith disagreement about a specific topic
- Share an interaction you had with someone you're helping

**Layer 2 conversations will only be shared internally within the foot nerd community unless otherwise stated

Please send recordings to Ruth at nerdhelperteam@gmail.com


6 ------- Dialogue covenant

This is our shared agreement of how foot nerds interact with one another in dialogue. Our rules of engagement for discourse
                                   
Created, edited and upheld by foot nerds


It’s our intention to create and maintain a productive space for intellectual disagreement and generative conversations

We aspire to become a community of individuals who challenge one another’s perspectives and where each indidivual is heard and respected

Together we maintain a safe environment for discourse, underlined by love and understanding

We’re here to learn from each other and contribute our varied experiences and backgrounds to the collective knowledge base

In doing so, we create diversity. Why is diversity important? Because a wide variety of perspectives breeds immunity from bias


We work towards a space where fear is eliminated and every nerd is safe to speak what he/she believes to be true without the danger of repercussions

An antidote to fear culture is the creation of a safe environment for discourse


What this means for you:

Each nerd agrees to participate in creating a safe environment for exchanges in daily conversation, in discourse of any kind and intellectual debate

We will use slack and zoom (as needed) as forums where we can have discussions on controversial topics

When topics come up and nerds want to have a debate/discussion, a temporary channel will be created on slack and the discourse will be held there

If a zoom call is appropriate, nerds can propose and schedule discussions that are open for all foot nerds to participate in

When needed, a mediator will lead the conversation and the discussion covenant will be enforced objectively by every participant involved

Covenant = Agreement

All nerds agree that conversations will be conducted with respect, will be constructive and that each person involved is participating in good faith

Good faith can be defined as: 

Contributing to the discussion honestly and fairly and agreeing to follow the guidelines for creating an environment of safety and trust

Everyone who agrees to the covenant is also an arbiter to ensure that the covenant is respected and enforced

It protects everyone within the space. The covenant is an evolving document

You can view the current version by selecting the dialogue covenant file from the README summary


7 ------- Monthly TFC zoom calls

A chance to gather on zoom as a global network

Answer community questions, nerd out on feet

Have beautiful disagreements in our quest for truth


8 ------- TFC Store discount code

As part of the nerd herd, you get 25% off any order at TFC Store (www.thefootcollective.store)

Please keep this code confidential and only use it for personal purchases

25% off any order:         nerdherd22

Higher discounts may be offered to nerds on bulk purchases of accessories or beams. Contact connect@tfchardgoods.com to inquire

Please contact other international stores directly (Australia, Spain, UK) to inquire about nerd discounts available


9 ------- Week 11: Deliver your workshop

[all actions begin as ideas. Think about and confirm details: what? when? where? who will come? how will they pay you? what will they receive?]

We recommend offering your workshop in week 11

Although it's still a while away, the sooner you begin thinking of a location and who you will invite, the better

Scheduling a date means you begin planning the session and practicing your delivery

Detailed workshop training is covered in weeks 8,9 and 10 to prepare you with everything you need to plan, prepare and confidently deliver a great session


10 ------- Feedback

Foot nerd training is a constantly evolving framework. To improve it we need your feedback

If at any point you have an idea about how we can improve the experience, please share your thoughts in the #feedback channel on slack

