Re-record Ruth & Nick on July 18

Shoter, less words, mostly Nick

1) Intro
2) Roadmap (checklist mention)
3) What is a foot nerd?
4) POW 
5) Slack & Github
6) Layer 2
7) Dialogue covenant
8) TFC monthly zoom calls
9) Nerd discounts at TFC Store
10) Week 11: deliver your workshop
11) Feedback
12) Outro


1 ------- INTRO

Hello beautiful humans. Thank you for being here and welcome to Foot Nerd Training orientation

I'm Nick and I'm here with Ruth to officially welcome you all and to review important points within orientation to make sure you're ready to begin your 
12 weeks of training and make the most of it

If you haven't already, we recommend reading the github orientation file first, then watch this video and take notes

This will be a high level overview and an opportunity for us to unpack a few important elements for your journey ahead



2 ------- ROADMAP

Let's start with the training roadmap. The next 12 weeks consists of:

- 6 weeks restoring excellent foot health
- 1 week reviewing notes and sharing/discussing with peers
- 3 weeks learning how to deliver a TFC workshop and earn income by offering a workshop to your community
- 1 week understanding what it means to be a health leader in your community (Healthnode)
- 1 week debriefing from your experience and preparing your POW submission to complete FNT

Be playful, seek support, your output of the next 12 weeks is based on your inputs

Put lots of energy in, you will get lots from it



3 ------- WHAT IS A FOOT NERD?

In really simple terms, a foot nerd is someone who takes excellent care of themselves and finds purpose and meaning in helping others do the same

We lead through action and arent afraid to share our stories to inspire others

We're curious

We're fascinated by feet and use foot health as a gateway to 6 pillar health

We enjoy good faith, productive disagreement and care more about learning than being right

We think for ourselves, respect one another and use the scientific method as a tool to discover truth



4 ------- PROOF OF WORK

2 components:
- daily notes that you take in your proof of work log
- 3 pages that you submit to complete foot nerd training which respresents the wisdom extracted from your daily notes

Why is proof of work included as element of foot nerd training?

To hold ourselves accountable for doing the work and engaging with the daily learning process, how we have our work witnessed by a peer

[Ruth] 
A moment to click on the the idea of having your work witnessed by a peer
- to be witnessed is to have your efforts reflected back to you in a way that you can see and make shifts and nuances to become better at what you're doing
- please do not under estimate your role in bearing witness to your fellow Foot Nerds' as they go through the 12 week journey as well
- the more deeply we know the work/efforts your learning partners are producing, the more integrity and coherence/cohesion is created for the entire project


How does proof of work hold us accountable?

By creating a concrete commitment that measures our progress

By taking notes everyday and then summarizing our most memorable experinces and key insights into 3 pages for a peer to review


Wht is proof of work in the context of FNT?

Brief notes written everyday about what we're learning/doing

A final 3 page summary sent to a peer to review to complete our training

Details of those 3 pages are in the github orientation file


Task: Create your proof of work log today. A fresh notebook. First page: write out 12 weeks with 7 boxes per week

This is your progress bar and pow checklist. Each day you take a note, check off one of the boxes. Build a streak and don't break it

Write your intention on the first page: why are you doing this? why is it important? what is the commitment? (1 hr of energy daily, notes taken everyday)

Ruth: daily pow - spectrum of effort
There is a spectrum of effort that you will experience day to day and week by week
At the far end is where there is a high degree of laser focused awareness and deep notetaking that feels important and useful
At the other end of the spectrum is where life gets ultra busy, shifts in routine and perhaps stress collide and its barely possible to take a note
At this end of the spectrum is where people drift and have a hard time coming back to the POW log
Remember to always begin again no matter what 
And the more routine your create for yourself, the more time you will find yourself spending the high quality time towards the right end of the higly focused
creative concentrated end of the spectrum



5 ------- SLACK & GITHUB

Slack - our food nerd town square in cyberspace

How we connect with other foot nerds, share stories, ask questions, seek help and inspire one another

Keep in context by writing in the correct channel based on the week you are in

Tip: schedule your Slack time each week (30 min once a week) and turn off all notifications

[Ruth]
While we're advocates for digital minimalism, we are working together online. And your participation does matter. Your focused attention and 
thoughtful participation is what creates new ideas and helps to improve the overall quality of the work we do together. You are an integral part 
of The Foot Collective.


Github - the platform we use to host foot nerd training content that allows us to collaboratively update and improve the materials in real time 



6 ------- LAYER 2

Seeing and hearing people is more rich than reading words

How we share stories and insights

A way to share discussions and productive disagreements with other nerds

Record using zoom and send us a link to the recording so we can share it with the nerd herd if you think it's of value for others to hear



7 ------- DIALOGUE COVENANT 

Our share agreement and guideline for fostering a safe space for debate and dialogue

A foundation for productive disagreement. Discovering truth requires us to bring our per

Disagreement within communities is important

Diversity of perspective is important in our quest for truth

We align on fundamental values and can respectfully disagree using productive disagreement



8 ------- TFC Monthly zoom calls

A chance for nerds to connect with the global TFC communnity

We answer questions, nerd out on feet and record these for everyone to listen

Call details will be announced on the #tfczoomcalls channel on slack



10 ------- WEEK 11: DELIVER YOUR WORKSHOP

11 weeks can seem far away but will arrive sooner than you think

Starting to plan your workshop in the first few weeks helps you envision your offering and prepare to give a great experience

Knowing you will be sharing your understanding with others gives deeper meaning to your journey of restoring healthy feet

You're no longer just learning for yourself, you're learning for others

All actions begin as ideas. The ideas we spend our energy on and plan towards end up manifesting into reality

5 details to begin thinking about and finalize over the next few weeks:

- When will you offer your workshop? (date/time)
- Where will you host it? (location)
- Who will you invite? (participants)
- What will you offer and how much will it cost to register? (length, price) [1hr, 2hr, 3.5hr]
- How will participants pay you? (payment method)



11 ------- FEEDBACK 

We know the foot nerd training experience can be much better and we need your input to improve it

Any suggestions, anytime, send them to the #feedback channel in slack

Every nerd who works through training is invited to leave their mark and make the experience better for future foot nerds



12 ------- Outro

That's it for this video. Thanks for leading by example and thanks for watching this video, we hope you found it helpful

Refer back to your github orientation file, or email Ruth questions if you have any (nerdhelperteam@gmail.com)

Have fun restoring healthy feet over the next 6 weeks
