
Welcome to week 8 of foot nerd training. In your first week of workshop training we cover:
1) Intention
2) Content
3) Bandwidth, time, desire
4) Confidence
5) Crafting your workshop playbook
6) Details

Continue your experiments and foot health restoration project all the way through week 12 
- even as you plan and offer your workshop. Now is a good time to regroup and refine your
daily practice. 

Continue to update & review your data collection sheet in the shared google drive. Look at what other Foot Nerds are doing by browsing through
the shared files here: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1saQKy38PxJ03X7KFB5FuX_CnqqHdZZ6t?usp=sharing

When observing other nerd's files, focus on the Foot Nerd files highlighted in green. They have completed their workshop and 
will have a debrief video or audio in their file. Listen, watch and learn from them as you prepare for your event.

Before getting into week 8 content, here is a video of James and Nick sharing their stories and thoughts about leading TFC in person experiences:

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aPVY7uSVfXQ

--

Quote: "Everyone started off as a beginner"

Be patient. Be persistent. Don't rush the process. Enjoy the journey

--



1 ------- INTENTION

Teaching can be immensely rewarding

The process of mastering your delivery is energy intensive. It's hard work. It requires clarity, planning, coordination and practice

In order to overcome challenges and resistance to teaching, it's helpful to have a powerful intention

A motivating force. A sense of purpose that pushes us to persevere through the work

Reflection" What is your intention? Your reason for teaching? Why do you want to do this?

Write it down in your log and refer back to those powerful words when things get tough or you start doubting yourself



2 ------- CONTENT

For your first workshop, we recommend opting for a shorter session and focusing on the experience

Choosing 60 or 120 min comes down to your preference and the audience you will be delivering the experience to

Your first workshop is a steep learning curve. Better to err on the side of shorter time and focus on higher quality minutes 

The templates are suggestions, not prescriptions. Pick one as a starting point and then make it your own by customizing it

Add points you found most interesting on your learning journey during the first 6 weeks of training

Share stories from your own experience. Explain concepts in your own words. Add your own games. Develop your own unique delivery style

Play music that you like during play sessions

Share the misconceptions you moved beyond and the "aha" moments you had

Understand the fundamentals deeply so you can teach them to others in a simple, clear way

Essentials in every workshop:

- Lots of play. Make it fun, make it memorable
- Natural footwear education. The root cause of foot problems and the solution to resolving them is the shoes we wear
- Plantar reset and toe splay. Simple, practical and very powerful when done consistently
- Balance training. Lower body recalibration and focus training
- Screens
- First principles
- Hips 101: help people understand why it's important to minimize chair time (with ground living) and why restoring a resting squat is important

Additional topics to cover if time permits: 
- Protect/correct/develop
- Pillars of health
- Tree of understanding [7:55 - 13:31] https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=PPYDbeIapIs


Details:
- Will you give people a printed flowsheet or manual to follow along during the workshop and take home?
- Will you bring equipment with you to the workshop or offer products for sale?
- If you're planning to purchase equipment for your group, large or small, you can follow these instructions:
---TFC STORE DISCOUNT CODE

As part of the nerd herd, you get 25% off any order at TFC Store (www.thefootcollective.store)

Please keep this code confidential and only use it for personal purchases

25% off any order:   nerdherd22

Higher discounts may be offered to nerds on bulk purchases of accessories or beams. 
Contact connect@tfchardgoods.com to inquire

Please contact other international stores directly (Australia, Spain, UK) to inquire about nerd discounts available




3 ------- BANDWIDTH, TIME, DESIRE

It seems to me that to accomplish anything worthwhile requires three elements (without them i've found it very hard to succeed)

1) Bandwidth: the mental space to engage with the process of learning or mastering a skill

2) Time: time blocked off and available for learning/practice. Tip: what gets scheduled gets done

3) Desire: This is where your intention and purpose are helpful. A strong feeling or yearning to achieve something. Without this, obstacles can easily
become roadblocks that stop you in your tracks. Your desire/motivation must exceed the difficulty of challenges you face in order to achieve success



4 ------- CONFIDENCE

Confidence is forged through work

Spending one focused hour understanding and restoring healthy feet for 42 days has given you a deep understanding of foot health

A more powerful understanding than I had as a physical therapist who graduated with a 2 year masters degree and treated many patients with foot issues

You have absorbed and practiced the knowledge that has taken 5 years, many brains and lots of experience to forge

Why am I writing this? Because you are likely underestimating how powerful the wisdom you possess truly is when directed to the right people

When it comes to teaching workshops, confidence is earned through deep understanding, practice, visualization and a deep sense of purpose in helping others

Be confident and be humble. Have strong opinions loosely held. Be open minded but know that you have 180+ foot nerds supporting you and witnessing you on
your journey to become an awesome workshop leader



5 ------- CRAFTING YOUR WORKSHOP PLAYBOOK

Create your own cheat sheet. A set of guidelines that are updated with every workshop you deliver

A checklist of things to do in preparation for, during, and after each workshop

An evolving template that you can improve over time and compare with other nerds



6 ------- DETAILS

Concrete details that reflect decisions you have made already or must now make. Write these down in your log.

- How long will your workshop be? (60min or 120 min)
- When will you deliver your workshop? [date/time]
- Where will it be hosted? [location]
- How much will it cost to register? [price]
- What do people receive in return for payment? [clear offering]
- How many people will attend? [aspiration/limit]
- How will people find out about the workshop? [marketing/awareness]
- How will people pay you to register? [payment - cash, barter, credit card]
- What is the payment deadline to register?
- How will you communicate with attendees? [reminder/follow up method]

