Welcome to week 10 of foot nerd training

To keep in context on Slack, please add yourself to #week10 channel

We hope week 9 went smooth and you have been able to make good on your commitment to spend 1 focused hour everyday on your foot health

Complete these things everyday: 

1) Daily practice (12-30 min)
2) Take a note (5-10 min)
3) Study a concept and practice explaining it (5-10 min)

Tasks/dates this week:

-> On April 11 (last day of week 10), set aside 30 minutes to review your notes from the past 6 days and extract a golden nugget

-> Set a clear objective to accomplish in week 10 (and share it with fellow foot nerds on slack)

-> Create your own definition of a Healthnode and be ready to share it on the next POW call

-------

If all has gone to plan so far, you will be delivering your event this week

Whether it's a shoes optional walk or a workshop, focus on showing up fully and offering a memorable experience to people who join you

You're ready. You've planned it, practiced the material, done the work to restore healthy feet and have valuable experience to share with others

You're going to do great

In addition to offering your event, in week 10 we open up a discussion about what it means to become a Healthnode

By now you have spent 9 weeks restoring healthy feet and working to understand and effectively explain 12 keystone concepts

Now it's time to envision how you can share that knowledge to help other humans in your community (family, work, social circle)


To kick off week 10, here is a video of Ruth and Nick sharing their perspectives on what it means to be a Healthnode:

**Note: disregard the reference to week 11 - we have changed the order since the last version of foot nerd training and this is now a week 10 video**

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Gz2sNDKXHxw

-------

Topics covered in week 10:

1. What is health?
2. What is a Healthnode?
3. What does a Healthnode do?



1 ------- WHAT IS HEALTH?

To discuss the meaning of Healthnode, we must first define Health. Before reading further, start by writing down your current definition of health

Health is subjective and in order to achieve better health, we must clearly define what better health means

This is a great question to begin with when connecting with other people

Nicks definition: The process of learning how to take better care of myself and spending daily energy making improvements

Practice: share your definition of health with other nerds on slack in the #week11 channel

Resource -  "What is health" lesson video from 360 foot nerd experience: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gxYbmv6ERj8



2 ------- WHAT IS A HEALTHNODE?

In computer talk, a node is a point of intersection within a communication network capable of creating, receiving and transmitting information

In botany, a node is a part of a plant stem from which one or more leaves emerge

In health, a node is an individual who takes excellent care of themselves and finds purpose in being a resource for their community

A healthnode is a hub. A focal point. An individual that serves their community

An authority. A source of guidance for those who wish to restore health

A good listener. Someone who focuses on asking good questions instead of giving answers

Healthnodes are connected together digitally to learn from one another. They then transmit health intelligence to their local communities

As foot nerds, we are health generalists with a specialty in feet. We understand health broadly and foot health deeply

--

A Healthnode is similar to a switchboard operator from the early days of telephony

An important part of our role is asking questions and matching people who are curious with the right resources and tools to empower them

To becoming known as a Healthnode, immerse yourself in community and engage with people (walks, organizing events, speaking with business owners)

Understand the healthscape (your local landscape of health) and help people navigate by leading with your actions and openly sharing your story

A Healthnode is a hub within a network that lives their work and relays/transmits information to people they are connected with

--

Being a leader means taking initiative and accepting responsibility

Believing in something, having a motivation to take action, crafting a vision for what can be done and planning how to do it

We begin with ourselves by accepting that our health is our responsibility and by embarking on a journey to learn and understand health

From that journey, we gain experience that provides a deeper understanding on a very important topic: health

A community health leader is available and open to having health conversations. They create opportunities for connection and learning

They are known not because of their words or title, but because of their actions

They are weavers that integrate individual fibres to form a cohesive whole

--

I like to think of a Healthnode as a regenrative gardener with their local community being the garden

A gardener cannot do the work of growing, only plants themselves can do it

A gardener facilitates diversity. They observe and provide what the garden needs to flourish

They create a space that welcomes and attracts animals and insects. As Healthnodes, we tend spaces that allow life to flourish

Foot nerds collaborate and connect with one another to understand the best gardening practices which we apply locally

We're connected globally but we live locally

We are stewards for our communities. We share resources and spend energy tending the garden so future generations can benefit



3 ------- WHAT DOES A HEALTHNODE DO?

We facilitate gatherings and organize events

We are present in our communities

We spend time and energy engaging with others to understand the challenges faced by those around us so we may empower people to overcome them

We point to resources once we understand which ones are right for each person at that time (library = collective database of resources)

We share our experience in hopes of inspiring others

We listen deeply to understand. We are curious and invest energy to engage in frequent conversations

We ask great questions instead of giving answers

--

Practice: go for a walk, make eye contact and say hi to 5 strangers, learn one persons name and write it down along with something unique about them

--

Asking questions

Helping others when it comes to health is really about asking good questions, listening and being able to point to the right resources

The right resource for the specific human you're speaking with based on what their aspirations are, their current understanding, their current ability, 
and what they are willing to commit to learning

Giving someone answers removes the requirement for then to explore, understand and figure out the answer for themselves

If we can't give answers, how do we help? 

By helping people understand the things they should stop doing, and by directing them to effective tools and resources

