[Work in progress. Completion deadline: 9.18.22]

Welcome to week 11 of foot nerd training

If all has gone to plan so far, you will be delivering your workshop this week

You're ready. You've planned it, practiced the material, done the work to restore healthy feet and have the experience to share with others

You're going to do great

In addition to delivering your workshop, in week 11 we open up a discussion about what it means to become a Healthnode

Quick recap of the journey so far. By now you have:

- spent 6 weeks restoring excellent foot health
- spent 1 week reviewing notes and summarizing the journey to reclaim healthy feet
- spent 3 weeks crafting a workshop which you will deliver this week (or soon after) and earn income for the value you deliver during that workshop


Now it's time to dive deeper into what it means to be a health leader in your community, something we call a Healthnode

This is the first version of this document and we hope that each foot nerd that completes training has a perspective to offer

By openly sharing our ideas, engaging in productive discussion and offering input, we can improve and evolve our collective perspective of what it means to 
be a healthnode (please share in the #week11 channel on Slack)

Becoming a community leader begins by leading yourself first

In order to help others improve their health, we must first take responsibility for our own. 

Mindfully engaging daily with the process of health is what gives us the stories and experience to share with others 


Week 11 tasks:
- Create opportunities to engage in health conversations within your local community. 
- Take notes and share inspiring stories with other nerds on Slack
- Craft your own definition of a healthnode
- Set an aspiration for yourself to make a certain amount of income as a healthnode over the next 12 months and write down detail of how you will do that
- record a layer 2 conversation with another nerd to share thoughts, fears, and stories about becoming a Healthnode

--

Topics covered in week 11:

1. What is health?
2. What is a healthnode?
3. What is a community health leader?
4. What does a community health leader do?
5. How do we make income?
6. How do we become community health leaders?
7. Curating your own resource library


To kick off week 11, here is a video of Ruth and Nick sharing their perspectives on what it means to be a Healthnode:





1 ------- WHAT IS HEALTH?

To discuss the meaning of healthnode, we must first 

Start by defining this question for yourself

Health is subjective and in order to achieve better health, we must clearly define what better health means

This is a great question to begin with when connecting with other people

My definition: The process of learning how to take better care of myself and spending daily energy making improvements

Practice: share your definition of health with other nerds on slack in the #week11 channel

Resource -  "What is health" lesson video from 360 foot nerd experience: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gxYbmv6ERj8



2 ------- WHAT IS A HEALTHNODE?

In computer talk, a node is a point of intersection within a communication network capable of creating, receiving and transmitting information

In botany, a node is a part of a plant stem from which one or more leaves emerge

In health, a node is an individual who takes excellent care of themselves and finds purpose in being a resource for their community

A healthnode is a hub. A focal point. An individual that serves their community

A source of guidance for those who wish to restore health

A good listener. Someone who focuses on asking good questions instead of giving answers

Healthnodes are connected together digitally to learn from one another. They then transmit health intelligence to their local communities

We are health generalists with a specialty in feet. We understand health broadly and foot health deeply

--

Being a switchboard operator

Asking questions and matching people who are curious with the right resources and tools to empower them

Becoming known in your community: immerse yourself in community and engage (walks, organizing events, speaking with business owners)

Understand the healthscape (the broad landscape of health) and help people navigate their way by leading by example and sharing your story

A hub within a network that leads by example and relays/transmits information to people they are connected with



3 ------- WHAT IS A COMMUNITY HEALTH LEADER?

Being a leader means taking initiative and accepting responsibility

Believing in something, having a motivation to take action, crafting a vision for what can be done and planning how to do it

We begin by leading ourselves. By accepting that our health is our responsibility and by embarking on a journey to learn and understand health

From that journey, we gain experience than provides a deeper understanding of a very important topic: health

A community health leader is available and open to having health conversations. They create opportunities for connection and learning

They are known not because of their words or a self given title, but because of their action

They are weavers that integrate individual fibres to form a cohesive whole

--

Think of a community health leader as a regenrative gardener and their local community as their garden

A gardener cannot do the work of growing, only plants themselves can do it

A gardener facilitates diversity. They observe and provide what the garden needs to flourish

They create a space that welcomes and attracts animals and insects. As community health leaders, we tend spaces that allow life to flourish

Foot nerds collaborate and connect with one another to understand the best gardening practices which we apply locally

We're connected globally but we live locally

We are stewards for our communities. We share resources and spend energy tending the garden so future generations can benefit



4 ------- WHAT DOES A COMMUNITY HEALTH LEADER DO?

They facilitate gatherings and organize events

They are present in their community

They spend time and energy engaging with others to understand the challenges faced by those around them so they may empower people to overcome them

They point to resources once they understand which ones are right for each person at that time (library = collective database of resources)

They share their experience in hopes of inspiring others

They listen deeply to understand. They are curious and invest energy to engage in frequent conversations

They ask great questions instead of giving answers


A Healthnode is someone who:

- Is known in the community as a person who understands health and coordinates fun things
- Organizes events, gatherings, games, play sessions. Invites people to join
- Seeks feedback from the community about struggles people are facing, needs not being met
- Spends time in community (around other people, animals, nature)
- Is open and available to help guide others by sharing their experience and pointing to good resources
- Asks great questions to understand where someone is at and what resource is right for them at the current moment
- Isn't afraid to say "I don't know" when asked a question they can't answer (and will research it/consult nerds with a specialty on the topic)


Practice: go for a walk, make eye contact and say hi to 5 strangers, learn one persons name and write it down along with something unique about them

Becoming known as someone in the community who:

1) Understands health and how to guide people towards it
2) Is open to and available to have conversations about health
3) Has access to a high quality database of resources that they can choose from and match to the right people


My approach: 
- be visible in the community 
- lots of walks, make eye contact, smile and say hi to everyone
- go barefoot a lot on walks, say hi, ask a lot of questions, be curious, write down and remember peoples names

Healthnodes take care of their communities by:

- Offering their time to work 1:1 with individuals motivated to improve their health
- Coordinating gatherings
- Leading workshops, experiences and play sessions
- Creating content that inspires and educates
- Pointing people to the right tools & resources (by understanding where someone currently is on their health journey and where they want to get to)

-------

Asking questions

Helping others when it comes to health is really about asking good qiestions, listening and being able to point to the right resources

The right resource for the specific human you're speaking with based on what their aspirations are, their current understanding, their current ability, 
and what they are willing to commit to learning

Giving someone answers removes the requirement for someone to explore, understand and figure out the answer for themselves

If we can't give answers, how do we help? By helping them understand the things they should stop doing and by directing them to good resources



5 ------- HOW DO HEALTHNODES MAKE INCOME?

By providing value to their community 

There are many different ways to exchange value

Barter: trading goods and services and favours

Money: using a tool that stores our time to exchange value

v4v - allowing those you help to compensate you the amount they feel reflects the value they received from your help

Deciding the value of your time. Deciding the value of your experience and understanding of health


In orger to make money as a healthnode, you must fundamentally believe two things: 

1) your time and energy is valuable
2) your understanding of health is valuable (confidence is based on your understanding)

How each healthnode translates the value they offer into income will vary with each individual and the local community they live within

Give people value and make it easy for them to pay you for your help

--

What about liability?

My perspective is that if I'm not giving advice or telling people what to do, I don't have any liability for the actions of others

Sharing my experience and pointing to great resources I've learned from is not the same as providing health advice

I'm just having human to human conversations and sharing my story

That said, I'm very careful with thinking about the questions people ask me and how I answer them

If someone says they are having chest pain unexpectedly, I reply by saying that's out of my scope of understanding and they should see a doctor

Everyone must do their own research but my sense if that if we are very clear with our language and actions and avoid offering advice, the concern over
liability is much lower

If you have a perspective to share, please do so in the #week11 channel on slack so we can add it to this document



6 ------- HOW DO WE BECOME HEALTHNODES?

When it comes to becoming a Healthnode, everyone must find their own path

We each form our own definition of Healthnode, have different aspirations, live in different communities and live different lives

Sharing stories and ideas of how we're individually working to become Healthnodes that serve our communities is how we inspire and learn from each other

If you want to contribute to this document, please send us stories and thoughts so we can add them for other nerds to read


--> Nick (Ottawa, Canada)

My definition of Healthnode is someone who takes excellent care of themselves and seeks to help others by sharing resources and stories

I live in Hintonburg, an urban neighborhood in Ottawa, Canada

My approach is simple: create as many opportunities as I can to connect with people in my local community

I do this by going on 2-3 walks per day (usually at least 1 barefoot walk) and making meaningful effort to connect with people

I do this by being present (not listening to music/podcast or being on my phone), smiling at everyone, making eye contact, saying hi and never being in
a rush

I ask people how their day is going, if they have any exciting plans on the weekend or giving an authentic compliment about them

I also ask people their name and make an effort to write down their name and something unique about them so I remember them next time I see them

As a curious person, I ask a lot of questions and make an effort to be fully present when I listen to what they have to say

If someone asks what I do for work I reply "I help people understand how to improve their health" and this is often general enough that people are curious
to ask more questions. I talk about the pillars of health, why I switched from physical therapy to health and why my approach revolves around pointing
people to the right resources

One of my favourite questions to ask is: "How do you define health". They key is to remain silent until they say something and not fill the silence with
speaking more. Let them think about what to say before chiming in (harder than you think sometimes)

I also organize gatherings. Example: sliding invitations under people doors in my condo building for a rooftop summer solstice gathering. I organized
games, facilitated introductions, cooked food for everyone, curated a playlist by having people text me with their playlist requests. 

As a Healthnode, I seek truth daily in my own health research and connect with a global community to learn more than I can individually

I know my understanding of health is valuable and so my best to share that understanding with those ready to learn without telling them what to do



7 ------- CURATING YOUR OWN RESOURCE LIBRARY

Part of becoming a foot nerd is curating a list of your favourite resources that can be shared with others

It's like a cheat sheet for health learning. A curated list of awesome resources that can be revisited or shared with others

The foot nerd library will serve as our master database as a community but each nerd should form their own personal library

Task: start your library by writing down your favourite resource (book, video, podcast, article) for each pillar of health and sharing it with other foot
nerds in the #week11 channel on slack



