Welcome to week 3 of Foot Nerd Training

To keep in context on Slack, please add yourself to #week3 channel

We hope week 2 went smooth and you have been able to make good on your commitment to spend 1 focused hour everyday on your foot health
 
Complete these things everyday: 

1) Daily practice (12-30 min)
2) Take a note (5-10 min)
3) Study a concept and practice explaining it (5-10 min)

Tasks/dates this week:

-> On Feb 20 we have our second live pow orientation call at (time)

-> Be preprared to share golden nuggets from your first two weeks and to explain any of these concepts: 
1) Daily pow log
2) Map to foot freedom
3) First principles
4) Inputs/Outputs

-> On Feb 21th (last day of week 3), set aside 30 minutes to review your notes from the past 6 days and extract a golden nugget

-> Set a clear objective to accomplish in week 3 (and share it with fellow foot nerds on slack)

----

In week 3 we cover: 

1) Natural foot function [core concept #5]
2) Natural footwear [core concept #6]
3) PCD
4) Data
5) Less is more
6) Acute injuries
7) Setbacks
8) Play



1 ------- NATURAL FOOT FUNCTION

Explain natural foot function


2 ------- NATURAL FOOTWEAR

Explain natural footwear

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Wu7rabkg1jw

video: (the paradox of footwear)      https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xd049r2CE1w

Your foot health is a direct reflection of how you use your feet

How you use your feet is primarily determined by the environment - the clothing you cover your feet with - aka the shoes you wear

I think it's helpful to clearly define two terms:

Natural footwear: Footwear that allows natural foot function (allows feet to move like feet)

Unnatural footwear: Footwear that inhibits natural foot function (prevents feet from moving like feet)

Simple really. Wear natural shoes, have healthy feet. Wear unnatural shoes, have unhealthy feet

All footwear exists on a continuum from natural to unnatural. The goal is to gradually shift away from unnatural and towards natural

Reflection/practice:
- Shoe audit: would you consider the shoes you wear to be natural or unnatural?
- Explain and write how unnatural footwear causes bunions through SAID principle

Experiment: purchase a pair of natural shoes (www.thefootcollective.store) and make them your daily drivers

Take notes on how they feel and changes you sense are happening over time



3 ------- PROTECT, CORRECT, DEVELOP

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=z1edTmETmyw

Practice: Explain foot health through the framework of PCD and why working to restore foot health while continuing to wear unnatural footwear doesn't work



4 ------- Data

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkd5r5ZpklQ

Practice: Collect 3 important data points right now



5 ------- LESS IS MORE

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=OJ0zAXbNIYo

Potent examples of less is more:

- By subtracting "technology" from our footwear we optimize the technology of our feet (which is much more advanced than any shoe)
- By subtracting exercise machines and using simple tools (like a balance beam), we permit a much broader complexity of movement potential
- By simply standing on a balance beam, we recalibrate our lower body and our mind better than any complex exercise
- People underestimate the lower body recalibration potency of going for a walk in natural footwear

Practice: explain to a friend or family member why less tech in their shoes helps to restore natrual foot function 



6 ------- ACUTE INJURIES

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=3Mr78lICHfk
more in depth video:                  https://youtu.be/E0id_1V2tvw

Practice: 
- Do you have any memorable experiences recovering from acute injuries?
- If you have anything to add or points you disagree with from the video, share them on slack



7 ------- SETBACKS

Over the course of your 12 week journey to become a foot nerd, you will face challenges

Things will not always go to plan, experiments won't always yield the results you desire and you may even feel like you're regressing at times

Setbacks are part of the process. In fact, setbacks are important. They are necessary for you to succeed on your mission to understand foot health

Setbacks re-orient us in the right direction when we stray off the path

In the words of Ryan Holliday - The obstacle is the way

I heard this quote once: "Emotions are hard to change. Perspective isn't"

It's hard to deal with negative emotions stemming from things we perceive to be failures

It's easy to view setback as lessons that must be taken in order for us to reach our goals

Harness the power of setbacks. Learn from them. Share those lessons with other nerds and people you help



8 ------ Play
video:                                https://youtu.be/eTHDZWAJxPA

"Play is the highest form of research" - Albert Einstein

Words of wisdom from one of the most brilliant scientists humanity has ever seen



Play is a powerful mindset when it comes to learning

Before reading on, answer this question: What is your definition of play?

Think of foot nerd training as a game. The rules are set but the way you play the game is up to you

Your daily hour can either be world-like drudgery or it can be the most fun, playful hour of your day

Play is a mindset. It's a way of viewing challenges that uses playful creativity to come up with solutions that are fun

If you feel like your daily hour has become a chore, inject more play. Keep it light, do experiments that you enjoy and make make you smile

Be creative. Invite friends to play with you. Add music. Make your daily experiments into a game

The only wrong way to complete foot nerd training is if you're not having fun

Want ideas on how to incorporate more play in your foot nerd training? Reach out to fellow nerds on slack in the #week3 channel

To inspire nerds that come after you to play more, share a nugget on slack about how you kept a playful mindset with your training
