Welcome to your final week of Foot Nerd Training

Making it here is a major accomplishment and we hope you've been consistent with your commitment to spend 1 focused hour everyday on your foot health

The focus this week is reflection and integration. The objective is to debrief yourself from the past 11 weeks to extract wisdom from your journey

The past 11 weeks have been busy. Learning new concepts, engaging with a daily practice, changes in your body, and hopefully lots of notes

You've done the work, now it's time to embed your lessons into a story that can be shared to inspire others

--

Complete these things everyday: 

1) Daily practice (12-30 min)
2) Review weekly note summaries (10min)
3) Write your story (20min)

Tasks/dates:

Upload your final week 12 screens to you google drive folder

GRADUATION CALL - Monday May 1 @ 1700-1815 ET

--

Topics covered in week 12:

1. Writing your story
2. Graduation call
3. Final screens
4. TFC affiliate
5. Celebration
6. What now? 
7. TFC Guide training
8. Becoming a world class foot health authority

--



1 ------- WRITING YOUR STORY

Each week for the past 11 weeks has been like a chapter in a story

The main character of this story is you. You emarked on a 12 week journey to upgrade your lower body health and make good on a concrete commitment

In the process, you developed a unique ability to communicate important concepts. This understanding is built on a foundation of experience

Your story is a classic example of the hero's journey - the story template popularized by Joseph Campbell that involves a hero who embarks on an adventure,
faces challenges, is victorious in their quest, and returns transformed and ready to share their lessons so they may benefit others

Along your Foot Nerd journey you likely experienced high points, low points, overcame challenges and had some great wins

This final week is all about extracting the wisdom you gained and putting your journey into a story that can be shared and told

We suggest choosing 1 of 2 options this week:

1) Write a short story with you as the main character
2) Write a memoire of your journey to summarize the experience

Suggested daily time allocation:
- Spend 10 minutes reviewing and summarizing your weekly notes and summaries
- Spend 20 minutes writing your short story/memoire

Your final result can be shared with other Foot Nerds or kept to yourself


Ideas for things to include:
- What were the most memorable moments?
- What were the toughest challenges?
- What results did you achieve?
- What are the most impactful lessons learned?
- What are your most powerful insights about restoring foot health?
- How do you want to apply your newly acquired knowledge to help others?
- How do you want to contribute to your community as a health leader?



2 ------- GRADUATION CALL

Your FNT graduation call is on Monday May 1 from 5-615pm ET

It's a chance for everyone to celebrate their epic accomplishment as a group and for you to share your experience

Each Nerd will have 5 minutes to share with the group. Please answer these 4 questions in your 5 minutes:

- What did you get out of Foot Nerd Training?
- What are you going to do with your new knowledge?
- What did you learn about yourself?
- How are you going to celeberate to imprint and acknowledge your achievement?



3 ------- FINAL SCREENS

Screen your squat and your balance (same as you did in week 1 and week 6), capture them on video and upload them to your google drive folder

Review the videos in your google drive folder and compare your squat and balance at week 12 to how they were at weeks 1 and 6



4 ------- TFC AFFILIATE

In order to become a TFC affiliate, Foot Nerds must take the trek to Basecamp and complete it with full effort

As a TFC affiliate, you will receive a personalized code which earns you income for recommending our tools to others

Your code will offer a discount to the people you give it to and will pay you a % of revenue

Final percentages are still to be determined but will be finalized by the time you make it to Basecamp

Initial affiliate products: Explorer memberships, SoleMates 



5 ------- CELEBRATION

The way we embed meaninfg into our accomplishments is by celebrating them

Meaning only exists if it's created by US. You completed a hard thing. You did the work. It's a major accomplishment. Treat it like a major accomplishment

How will you celebrate? 

With who? 

It can be big or small, subtle or extravagant

Make it special and memorable



6 ------- WHAT NOW?

Now that you have acquired Foot Nerd level understanding, what will you do with it?

How will you transmit it to others?

How will you continue your learning journey?

Take this opportunity to get clear on your future aspirations and write a plan for what you want to achieve in the next 1,6 & 12 months

Do you want to continue leading events? When will you schedule your next one?

What area of the body or movement ability do you want to focus on next?

What habits/routines do you plan to integrate into your lifestyle in order to continue making progress on your health journey?

Completing Foot Nerd training marks an initiation into an aligned community of health leaders but it's not the end of your learning

We hope that you have gained a deeper understanding and useful tools over the past 11 weeks that will serve you well as you continue your Nerd journey

Whether you wish to continue leading events, make it to Basecamp or become a TFC Guide, TFC is here to support you

Join Kajabi to keep connected with fellow Nerds from around the world and upodated on opportunities to contribute value to our global community



7 ------- TFC GUIDE TRAINING

Our team is currently focused on building TFC Pro - a community of health professionals who want to change how they provide foot health services

A bridge for disease care professionals who want to move beyond treating symptoms and wish to become part of a global, aligned community of pros who
are pioneering a new approach to foot health that is built on education and recommeding tools that empower individuals to take an active role in restoring
their lower body health

Once Pro is built and stabilized, our focus will shift to TFC Guide training at the end of 2023

Guide training is the evolution of Foot Nerd Training. A 12 week proof of work certification that will compete with traditional disease care degrees

The mission is to create a world class certification for people who want to develop a professional career helping others with their foot health

Conventional degrees are expensive, non specific, test memorization instead of ability, and are not delivering value for the time and money they cost

We think that ability comes from experience, and ability matters more than credentials

Guide training will leverage our new Kajabi platform to offer an engaging 84 day journey which requires you to show your work along the way

Your movement capacity and ability to explain important concepts is proof that you have done the work required to help others follow in your footsteps

Guides lead by example. We want to create a certification that embodies that ethos and provably shows that Guides know what they are talking about

We still have lots of work to do before Guide training launches but here are a few upgrades compared to FNT:

- Anatomy and physiology lessons
- Pathology lessons
- Daily digital proof of work
- How to build a business
- Discussions about insurance/liability when serving others

We want to build Guide training with Foot Nerd nerds. Head to the Foot Nerd circle in Kajabi to stay updated and connected 



8 ------- BECOMING A WORLD CLASS FOOT HEALTH AUTHORITY

** section was inspired by a chapter titled “top dog” in Beyond Order by Jordan Peterson **


Until recently, I very much disliked the term "expert"

Most of the "experts" I've met to date have far too much certainty that they know everything there is to know on their respective topic

That certainty made them rigid in their thinking and inflexible to changing their mind

These individuals had often accumuated a lot of time in academia reading papers and books but few had much if any experiential knowledge to speak from

These experts seemed to have derived their confidence from letters next to their name, not from demonstrating competence that could be put to the test

In his book "Beyond Order", Jordan Peterson elaborates on the concept of what it means to be an authority on a subject

In particular, he talks about how it’s a good thing to be an authority

He mentions that life is difficult and suffering is common. Ameliorating that suffering takes initiative, effort and ability

True authority is derived from ability and competence

False authority is derived from degrees which seem to have lost their validity as proxies of ability because of the outdated methods that conventional 
education continues to employ

A few potent quotes from the book:

“If a problem is real, then the people who are best at solving the problem at hand should rise to the top. That is not power. That is the authority 
that properly accompanies ability”

“A responsible person decides to make a problem his/her problem and then works diligently towards its solution with other people in the most efficient 
manner possible”


My primary takewaways from his work:

Authority is earned through competence

It must be wielded honourably

Our ambition must be derived from a desire to solve genuine, serious problems

Authority is derived from competence

An authority is an expert on a subject. A group of people with official responsibility for a particular area of activity 



Foot Nerds are authorities in the realm of foot health

In short, Foot Nerd training aims to develop world class authorities via proof or work

Authorities that have the ability to effectively help others restore healthy feet because they have first done the work themselves


In the past 11 weeks you have begin developing into a legitimate foot health authority. Not because we say so, because you have done the work

Why am I writing all of this? Because I want you to appreciate the value of the understanding you have gained in these 12 weeks

By grasping the value of our understanding and the effectiveness with which it solves an important problem (foot dysfunction), we gain the confidence that
enables us to teach others


---------------------


CONGRATULATIONS

Finishing Foot Nerd Training is a major feat. It's an intense commitment and proof of work that you showed up and did you what said you were going to do

You are now part of a global family of health leaders. We discuss, disagree and work together to determine truth

We support each other during hard times and celebrate our achievements together

Thank you for being part of the Nerd Herd. Thank you for being a health leader in your community

Thank you for helping to improve the world one sole at a time and one step at a time

Love you all

Nick

