Welcome to week 11 of foot nerd training

If all has gone to plan so far, you will be delivering your workshop this week

You're ready. You've planned it, practiced the material, done the work yourself and have the experience to share with others

You're ready to help others and you will do great

In addition to delivering your workshop, in week 11 we open up a discussion about what it means to become a Healthnode


By now you have:
- spent 6 weeks restoring excellent foot health
- spent 3 weeks learning how to give a TFC workshop
- Earned income by offering a workshop to your community 


Now it's time to dive deeper into what it means to be a health leader in your community (what we call a Healthnode)

This is the first version of this document and we hope that each foot nerd that completes training has a perspective to offer and can help improve and 
evolve our collective perspective of what it means to be a healthnode by engaging in discussion within the #week11 channel on Slack

When it comes to health, becoming a community leader begins by leading yourself first

In order to help others improve their health, you must first take responsibility for your own. 

Engaging daily with the process of health is what gives you experience to share with others 


Outcomes:
- engage in health conversations within your local community. Take notes and share inspiring stories with other nerds on Slack
- create your own definition of a healthnode
- set an aspiration for yourself to make a certain amount of income as a healthnode over the next 12 months
- record a layer 2 conversation with another nerd to share insights 
- craft your Foot Nerd bio to be listed within our global directory of nerds once you have completed training


--

Topics covered in week 11:

1. What is health?
2. What is a healthnode?
3. What is a community health leader?
4. What does a community health leader do?
5. How do they make income?
6. How do we become community health leaders?


1 ------- WHAT IS HEALTH?

Start by defining this question for yourself

Health is subjective and in order to achieve better health, we must clearly define what better health means

This is a great question to begin with when connecting with other people

My definition: The process of learning how to take better care of myself and spending daily energy making improvements

Practice: share your definition of health with other nerds on slack in the #week11 channel

Resource: lesson video from 360 foot nerd experience (insert "what is health?" video link)


2 ------- WHAT IS A HEALTHNODE?

A hub within a network that relays and transmits information. A community health leader


3 ------- WHAT IS A COMMUNITY HEALTH LEADER?

Being a leader means taking initiative and accepting responsibility

Believing in something, having a motivation to take action and a vision for what can be done and how to do it

We begin by leading ourselves. By accepting that our health is our responsibility and by embarking on a journey to learn and understand health

From that journey, we gain experience than provides a deeper understanding of a very important topic: health

A community health leader is available and open to having health conversations. They create opportunities for connection and learning

They are known not because of their words or a self given title, but because of their action

They are weavers that integrate individual fibres to form a cohesive whole

--

Think of a community health leader as a regenrative gardener and their local community as their garden

A gardener cannot do the work of growing, only plants themselves can do it

A gardener facilitates diversity. They observe and provide what the garden needs to flourish

They create a space that welcomes and attracts animals and insects. We tend spaces that allow life to flourish

Foot nerds collaborate and connect with one another to understand the best gardening practices which we apply locally

We're connected globally but we live locally

We are stewards for our communities. We share resources, spend energy tending the garden so future generations can benefit




4 ------- WHAT DOES A COMMUNITY HEALTH LEADER DO?

They organize events

They are present in their community

They spend time and energy engaging with others to understand the challenges faced by those around them so they may empower people to overcome them

Facilitate gatherings

Point to resources once they understand which ones are right for each person at that time (library = collective database of resources)

Share their experience in hopes of inspiring others

They listen deeply to understand. They are curious and frequently have conversations

They ask great questions instead of giving answers



5 ------- HOW DO THEY MAKE INCOME?

By providing value to their community 

There are many different ways to exchange value

Barter: trading goods and services and favours

Money: using a tool that stores our time to exchange value

v4v - allowing those you help to compensate you the amount they feel reflects the value they received from your help

Deciding the value of your time. Deciding the value of your experience and understanding of health




2) Becoming a Healthnode
5) Crafting your resource library (your cheat sheet whe someone asks for help)
6) Foot Nerd directory
7) Healthnode stories
 




1 ------- INTRODUCTION 

In computer talk, a node is a point of intersection within a communication network capable of creating, receiving and transmitting information

In botany, a node is a part of a plant stem from which one or more leaves emerge

In health, a node is an individual who takes excellent care of themselves and finds purpose in being a resource for their community

A healthnode is a hub. A focal point. An individual that serves their community

A source of guidance for those who wish to restore health

A good listener. Someone who focuses on asking good questions instead of giving answers

Healthnodes are connected together digitally to learn from one another. They then transmit health intelligence to their local communities

We are health generalists with a specialty in feet. We understand health broadly and foot health deeply

--

Being a switchboard operator

Matching people who are curious with good resources and tools to empower them

Becoming known in your community: immerse yourself in community and engage (walks, businesses)

Understand the healthscape (the broad landscape of health) and help people navigate their way by leading by example and sharing your story

Healthnode: a switchboard operator


2 ------- BECOMING A HEALTHNODE

How does one become a Healthnode for their community?



A Healthnode is someone who:

- Is known in the community as a person who understands health and coordinates fun things
- Organizes events, gatherings, games, play sessions. Invites people to join
- Seeks feedback from the community about struggles people are facing, needs not being met
- Spends time in community (around other people, animals, nature)
- Is open and available to help guide others by sharing their experience and pointing to good resources
- Asks great questions to understand where someone is at and what resource is right for them at the current moment


Practice: go for a walk, make eye contact and say hi to 5 strangers, learn one persons name and write it down along with something unique about them


——

Becoming known as someone in the community who:

1) understands health and how to guide people towards it
2) is open to and available to have conversations about health and 3) has a database of resources they can direct people to 


My approach: 
- be visible in the community 
- lots of walks, make eye contact, smile and say hi to everyone
- go barefoot a lot on walks, say hi, ask a lot of questions, be curious, write down and remember peoples names



3 ------- WORK: CREATING INCOME

How do you make money as a Healthnode?

Two things you must believe: 1) your time and energy is valuable, 2) your understanding of health is valuable (confidence is based on your understanding)

How do you translate that value into income? 

Compensation types: monetary payment, barter system?

Fundamental principle: v4v

Get paid for your time or get paid for the value you deliver

What value do you place on your time and energy?

Give people value and make it easy for them to pay you for your help

--

What about liability?

Not giving advice, not telling people what to do

Sharing our experience and pointing to great resources we’ve learned from

No liability. Just human to human conversations

Everyone must do their own research. I personally am very clear with my language and actions and know that I’m not giving advice so it’s not relevant

--



5 ------- Healthnode stories

Mrs. A

Mrs. A is a young woman in my building Interactions with A about chronic pain

Rooftop conversation with a woman that lives in my building

She brings me teas once in a while, baked goods, invites me for rooftop games with her friends

---

Rooftop solstice gathering

notes under doors, facilitate games

---

Dr A.J

My most recent interaction: connected with a doctor in the states struggling with foot problems. 

I told her I would give her an hour of my time on zoom and sent her questions ahead of time to think about and answer. 

I did little talking. Pointed to TFC resources. She paid me $250 usd worth of bitcoin (verify amount). 

I had zero expectations and was happy that I gave her $250 of value 


-------

Healthnodes take care of their communities by:

- Offering their time to work 1:1 with individuals motivated to improve their health
- Coordinating gatherings
- Leading workshops, experiences and play sessions
- Creating content that inspires and educates
- Pointing people to the right tools & resources (by understanding where someone currently is on their health journey and where they want to get to)

-------
Asking questions

Helping others when it comes to health is really about asking good qiestions, listening and being able to point to the right resources

The right resource for the specific human you're speaking with based on what their aspirations are, their current understanding, their current ability, 
and what they are willing to commit to learning

Giving someone answers removes the requirement for someone to explore, understand and figure out the answer for themselves

If we can't give answers, how do we help? By helping them understand the things they should stop doing and by directing them to good resources

-------
Project: Crafting your content database

Every Foot Nerd should create their own resource database. We evolve them over time as we continue learning and we cross pollinate our databases

A collection of your favourite resources to learn from on topics related to health

Simple database 

48 resources

For each pillar of health: a "basic" and "advanced" piece of content in each media type

Pillars: Food, Movement, Mind, Community, Sleep, Money
Content types: Book, Video, Article, Podcast 

Curate a library of your best stuff that can be shared with others who are curious to learn

Everyone learns different (hence different content types), has different aspirations, and wishes to focus on different things. Be preprared when someone
asks you a question

-------

Valuable Healthnode trait: Being able to say "I don't know but ill look into it"

-------


30min conversation about being a healthnode (Ruth & Nick)

A Foot Nerd begins by helping others restore excellent foot health

- a healthkit guide
- facilitating clarity
- source of accountability and support
- has a deep understanding of how to restore foot health
- Someone who has walked the path and done the work
- Someone who leads by example

-------

Who are the people in your community (local + digital)
How do you become known in the community?


- I go on a lot of walks and greet or speak to everyone I encounter
- Organize gatherings for people who live in the same building as me (solstice gathering: invites, food, games, music)
- Meet business owners, ask them their stories and why they do what they do
- Card with link to intro video of who you are, why you do what you do, what you offer

-------
Foot Nerd directory

Name, current home city, specialty (pillar/activity)
