Welcome to week 4 of foot nerd training

We hope week 3 was filled with new experiences, playful learning and that you took plenty of detailed notes

To keep in context on Slack, please add yourself to #week4 channel and engage, share stories, seek help or learn from other foot nerds

Continue to update & review your data collection sheet in the shared google drive. Look at what other Foot Nerds are doing by browsing through
the shared files here: https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1saQKy38PxJ03X7KFB5FuX_CnqqHdZZ6t?usp=sharing 
This is your Proof of Work. 


Reflection questions:
- Have you dedicated 1 uninterrupted hour to your Foot Nerd Training? If no, what are the obstacles keeping you from doing that?
- Have you been able to keep your experiments simple, focused and consistent? 
- What kind of differences are your seeing/feeling in your body as a result of your experimentation?

- Did I spend a daily hour restoring foot health for all 7 days? If not, why not?
- Did I take notes everyday? If not, why not?
- Did I check in with foot nerds on Slack?

Task: set a clear objective to accomplish in week 4 (and share it with fellow foot nerds on slack)

----

In week 4 we cover: 

1) Balance
2) Resting squat position
3) Training
4) Tools



1 ------- BALANCE

In a world of distractions, focus is a superpower

Balance training is 2 things: 1) focus training, 2) lower body recalibration

Training our focus is a means of training our minds to settle and direct our attention to a single task

The ability to focus is key to our ability to learn, listen, and engage in deep work


Developing balance is really just improving lower body calibration. A calibrated lower body performs well and is resilient to injury

The ability to successfully and efficiently fight gravity is an astounding capability of the human body


Balance training is high throughput problem solving by the body

--> Input: balance challenge

--> Output: the body naturally discovers the most efficient way to organize itself against gravity and avoid falling over

Time training balance is time debugging our lower body system


By seeking efficiency, our bodies activate our hip rotator cuff

The fine precision, reflexively activated muscles that keep the ball safely centered in the socket just like the shoulder 

I realized in clinic how much information I can get by screening someone’s single leg balance

I could see how their entire system reacted when stress tested with gravity and especially when the visual field is eliminated (eyes closed)

I also realized how many people had poor balance and how big of an obstacle poor balance was to restoring natural movement

** A note on flailing (defined: the act of waving or swinging wildly) **

Flailing is exploration. It’s your body trying a new experiment: throw a limb here and see if it helps

Your body is drawing a map of the different muscles to fire when faced with a certain problem (not falling over)

The more flailing the better. Embrace it. It’s a good thing


How the balance beam started:

As an experiment in clinic, I brought in a piece of metal tubing and challenged patients to balance on it as a way to assess how they reacted

The beam was an honest screen (people couldn’t cheat it) and patients found it to be a fun tool to play on

They actually enjoyed training their balance and balance improvements had huge trickle effects on movement patterns and positioning


Lack of movement and lots of chair sitting develops dark spots in the google maps version of our motor cortex

Those dark spots are unsafe to our bodies. They don't know how to stabilize there. It's where injuries happen. It's where mobility is usually reduced

Balance training is like repopulating Google maps of the motor cortex


A core requirement of Foot Nerd Training is a daily balance practice. 10 minutes everyday playing and working to develop excellent balance

How do you know you have reached a high standard of proficiency with your balance? Screen your balance. Work on it daily until you can ace the test

TEST: SL balance screen. 3/3 attempts successful in a row (barefoot, hard ground, eyes closed, single leg)



3 ------- BALANCE TRAINING

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Mjm00oUUQaA

Task: listen to Mike + Nick talk about balance and take notes


Balance training is primarily a mental training tool. Like meditation, it trains our mind to focus on a single task: not falling over

Although primarily a focus training tool, balance work also has tremendous physical benefits for recalibrating the lower body

Time spent sitting in chairs creates imbalances around our hip joint and unplugs the important deep stabilizers that enable glute function

Relcaiming use of our glutes begins with plugging in those deep hip muscles and re-training our hips to act like hips again

Practice: Spend time this week mastering the movements below on your SoleMate 
(these beam projects were included in a previous version of the foot nerd project)

Single leg stance                     https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VqeSJsonblA
Leg switches                          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=vrXJqkKNRdM
180 rotations                         https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=T04br2Hp8hI
Lunge to high knee elbow tap          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ISRsMBE7d5g
Ninja squats                          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=86jwx4_EyjM
Ninja stance                          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6cXHp8uBH4Q

Share stories and progress videos with other nerds in the #week5 channel on slack




2 ------- RESTING SQUAT POSITION

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JLYd4Qkg6ZM

--

Our lower half (belly button and below) is a deeply integrated subsystem within the human body

That means that feet, ankles, knees and hips function as interdependent elements within a system that cannot be optimized by isolating the parts

Our hips are an especially important area. Hips are the primary stabilizers of the legs, the master joint in terms of alignment, and also the primary
engines for force production and propulsion

Our modern culture of chair sitting has negatively impacted our lower body function in a big way and this has consequences on other lower systems,
especially our feet

A quote from the great Charlie Weingroff explains why in order to resolve foot issues, we need to look upstream to our hips:

"I've never seen a foot a hip couldn't fix"

Practice: 
- Explain and write down the connection between hips and feet in simple terms that a 10 year old could understand



3 ------- TRAINING

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6-UOQwKis5k

Practice: Choose a training experiment for this week (mobility, strength, capacity)

Examples: 
- Train hip extension and rotation mobility everyday for 10 minutes
- Train squat strength by doing 3 sets of 10 loaded squats everyday this week



4 ------- TOOLS

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=mA-mYfTfOL4

Practice:
- Explain why footwear is our most powerful physical tool for restoring natural foot health

