Welcome to week 5 of Foot Nerd Training

To keep in context on Slack, please add yourself to #week5 channel

We hope week 4 went smooth and you have been able to make good on your commitment to spend 1 focused hour everyday on your foot health
 
Complete these things everyday: 

1) Daily practice (12-30 min)
2) Take a note (5-10 min)
3) Study a concept and practice explaining it (5-10 min)

Tasks/dates this week:

-> On March 5 we have our third live pow call (This is a Sunday)

-> Be preprared to share golden nuggets from your last two weeks and to teach any of these concepts in 5 minutes or less: 
1) Daily pow log
2) Map to foot freedom
3) First principles
4) Inputs/Outputs
5) Natural foot function
6) Natural footwear
7) Balance
8) Resting squat position

-> On March 7 (last day of week 5), set aside 30 minutes to review your notes from the past 6 days and extract a golden nugget

-> Set a clear objective to accomplish in week 5 (and share it with fellow foot nerds on slack)


Reflection questions:
- Have I dedicated 1 uninterrupted hour to your Foot Nerd Training? If no, what are the obstacles keeping me from doing that?
- Have I been consistent with my daily practice? If not, why not? 
- What differences am I seeing/feeling in my body?

----

In week 5 we cover: 

1) Ground Living (core concept #9)
2) Pain (core concept #10)
3) Self regulation
4) Breath


1 ------- GROUND LIVING

Before humans adopted chairs, we took a break from gravity by spending time in a squat or on the ground

On the ground, we're free to adopt a wide variety of positions and to expose our joints to a broad array of mobility inputs

Ground living is the concept of spending less time in chairs and more time on the floor

The key to ground living is to design our environment in a way that nudges us away from chairs and towards the floor. Here are some tips:

- Reduce the amount of chairs/couches in your home/office
- Make chairs/couches less convenient
- Create convenient and comfortable ground surfaces (yoga mats, meditation cushions)

The keys is to effortlessly spend more time on the floor instead of fighting to get it done

When on the ground, listen to your body. If your current position gets uncomfortable, switch position. Explore many different positions

Try positions that put your joints at their range of motion limit (ankle, hip in particular)

By changing position frequently, we explore a vast array of joint positions. We turn our lifestyle into a mobility practice


Check out this article for position ideas: http://www.staystrongsc.com/blog/2017/2/18/why-you-should-sit-on-the-floor

--

Chair sitting for prolonged periods of time creates imbalances around our hip joints

The imposed demand: long periods of time spent with our hip bent at 90 degrees without needing to counteract gravity

Specific adaptation: the anterior hip muscles become adaptively short, we loose the ability to effectively stabilize and counteract gravity

Consequence of a tight anterior hip: reduced ability to recruit and fire our glutes (which happens in hip extension)

Consequence of reduced glute activation: Our calves, hamstrings and low back must now contribute much more to propulsion when ambulating

Sitting in chairs unplugs our deep hip stabilizers - the fine tuning muscles that contribute to our balance. Without them we become unstable

In reaction to this instability, our bodies lock down muscles in the lower body in order to protect us but this reduces our mobility

--

Chair sitting is a checkpoint that must be overcome on the path to foot freedom

By gradually reducing the amount of time we spend sitting in chairs and incorporating ground living into our lives, we:
- Improve our movement quality
- Improve our hip function
- Improve our our abilityto balance
- Move towards restoring natural foot function

--
                           
Practice: Spend time on the floor everyday this week. Note the positions you adopt and how you're changing your environment at home or at the office

Experiment: un-chair your life        https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=g6Z1_9GHyLs

Ground living video:                  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nAtnVtEEPYI



2 ------- PAIN

When it comes to health, pain is our most honest and powerful teacher

It's a feedback signal from our bodies that must be listened to and learned from instead of feared and ignored

Pain often begins as a subtle hint. A whisper from the body letting us know that something isn't right and we need to pay attention

If we ignore the whisper, it gets louder. It becomes more intense and more frequent. It's a call for change

Ignore it for long enough and the body starts to scream. The pain gets intense and begins to stop us from doing activites we love

--

Modern culture has demonized pain. Our objective within the sick-care system is mostly to mitigate pain at all costs

This leads us to interventions that allow us to ignore pain for as long as possible and can lead to disaster

When we understand pain, it becomes our ally instead of our enemy

It's no longer as scary and transforms from being an obstacle in our way to the very thing that leads us towards progress

Understanding our pain offers us the ability to respond to situations. It opens up the possibility of taking responsibility for our health

--

If you currently experience pain in your lower body, begin by taking a note to qualify it

Noting details about our pain pain is important so we can look back on our data and detect patterns/trends

Detailed data = better results

Qualifiers: 
- location (where is it?)
- sharp or dull
- intermittent or constant
- intensity (0 to 10)
- movements/activities/positions that ease the pain
- movements/activities/positions that make the pain worse

Be curious about pain, don't fear it

Use it as a tool to better understand what is going on and whether things are progressing in the right direction

Pain video:          https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UmthGnf2JpA



3 ------- SELF REGULATION

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=xjhPRwaJhvg

Reflection: What feedback do you use to self regulate? (ex: pain, soreness, fatigue, tendency to distract etc). Write concrete examples in your log

Becoming independent with our health requires us to self regulate. To know when to do more or less based on how we feel

Effective self regulation requires us to attune ourselves with signals from our body



4 ------- BREATH

video:                                https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=qkjho3x2Z_8

Task: listen to James + Tom talk about breath and take notes

Practice: Go on several walks this week and focus your mind and body on your breath. Take notes (how did it feel? was it hard to focus?)

