Trimmed content from weeks. Unrefined, not yet ready

------- WEEK 2

First principles

Practice: describe and write out the first principles related to health


------- WEEK 1

SCREENS:

Task: based on your screens, create 3 concrete objectives/aspirations to achieve by the end of foot nerd training and plan out how you will get there

Example: 
I'm currently unable to achieve a resting squat position. By the end of foot nerd training, I will be able to rest comfortably in a squat for 60 seconds 
while breathing deeply and calmly. My plan to get there is to systematically address mobility at my ankles (measured w KTW) with 5 minutes of daily 
dorsiflexion mobilizations, to increase my hip mobility by spending 30 minutes a day sitting on the floor in a variety of positions, training my balance 
for 5 minutes everyday and doing 20 slow, controlled squats daily before my morning coffee (and pausing in the bottom position to take a deep breath)

I will screen my resting squat every 7 days to measure progress and take notes on how it feels and what I will focus on for the next 7 days


------- WEEK 11

Sharing Healthnode stories on slack or in a recorded layer 2 conversation


--> My Healthnode stories:

Mrs. A

Mrs. A is a young woman in my building Interactions with A about chronic pain

Rooftop conversation with a woman that lives in my building

She brings me teas once in a while, baked goods, invites me for rooftop games with her friends

---

Rooftop solstice gathering

notes under doors, facilitate games

---

Dr A.J

My most recent interaction: connected with a doctor in the states struggling with foot problems. 

I told her I would give her an hour of my time on zoom and sent her questions ahead of time to think about and answer. 

I did little talking. Pointed to TFC resources. She paid me $250 usd worth of bitcoin (verify amount). 

I had zero expectations and was happy that I gave her $250 of value 



-------
Project: Crafting your content database

Every Foot Nerd should create their own resource database. We evolve them over time as we continue learning and we cross pollinate our databases

A collection of your favourite resources to learn from on topics related to health

Simple database 

48 resources

For each pillar of health: a "basic" and "advanced" piece of content in each media type

Pillars: Food, Movement, Mind, Community, Sleep, Money
Content types: Book, Video, Article, Podcast 

Curate a library of your best stuff that can be shared with others who are curious to learn

Everyone learns different (hence different content types), has different aspirations, and wishes to focus on different things. Be preprared when someone
asks you a question

-------


30min conversation about being a healthnode (Ruth & Nick)

A Foot Nerd begins by helping others restore excellent foot health

- a healthkit guide
- facilitating clarity
- source of accountability and support
- has a deep understanding of how to restore foot health
- Someone who has walked the path and done the work
- Someone who leads by example

-------

Who are the people in your community (local + digital)
How do you become known in the community?

- Meet business owners, ask them their stories and why they do what they do
