Week 1:

THE GOLDEN RULES

5 simple yet powerful heuristics that offer clarity for the process

Simple doesn't mean easy, but simple keeps us accountable

The search for novelty through complexity distracts us

The golden rules for restoring healthy feet:

1) Wear natural footwear (for best results, work towards progressively eliminating unnatural footwear - cycle them out, go faster for faster results)
2) Become capable of getting into a resting squat position for 2 minutes comfortably. If you can't, work towards it everyday until you can
3) Become capable of standing on 1 foot barefoot with your eyes closed for 60 seconds without making an error. If you cant, work on it until you can
4) Sit in chairs for 4 hours or less perday and if sitting in a chair, get up and moveevery 30 minutes
5) Adopt a long term mindset. It's not a race. A little bit better everyday is the objective. Be patient. Trust the process and show up everyday

--

A DEDICATED HOUR

Dedicating 60 focused minutes a day for 84 consecutive days may seem like a simple task, but in today's busy world, it can be very difficult

Human attention has become a commodity that companies spend billions of dollars fighting for, and so most of us 

In a chaotic distraction-centric world, focus is a superpower for those who can protect their energy and train their concentration

Focused attention is where deep work comes happens. It's where results are created. It's where insights are achieved

Focus is how we achieve in 1 hour what would typically take us several hours if distracted

Success requires courage, clarity and commitment

The courage to decide what is important, what you wish to spend your energy on, and to embark on a journey to achieve your objective by venturing into
the unknown

The clarity to form a plan and to protect ourselces from distraction so we can focus on achieving what we set out to do

A simple, clear commitment that we can use to hold ourselves accountable and keep on track

In order to clarify your commitment within Foot Nerd Training, answer these questions:

1) How do I define a dedicated hour? 
2) When will I complete my daily hour? How will I remind myself to do it? How will I track whether I'm succeeding or not?
3) How will I hold myself accountable? Who else can help support me along this journey?

If you lose your way and get off the path of completing your daily hour, do not be hard on yourself. Give yourself grace and simply begin again

This isn't a race, it's a process. Foot Nerds are here to support you and we are all doing this together

--

